---
title: "Bakewell"
date: 2023-07-10T14:15:59-06:00
lng: "-1.6762"
lat: "53.2152"
photo_link: "https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipP7-VBx9MDFWN_ABFhhM1RzZMZc55BK8zH6_ZkTc0BXJKKVBr-Ej-bwaQYom0GsQA?key=RVdWaWFhRkhqelp6Q3BSaGo2aE9JQmlDc0dDY1lB"
ticket_link: "https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/walk-in-bakewell-with-the-rambling-and-hiking-club-tickets-642864895207"
---

{{< walks >}}
{{< generalInfo >}}
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Peak District National Park, the UK’s first national park! Our walks today explore the countryside surrounding the picturesque historic market town of Bakewell in what is known as the ‘White Peak’, a gently rolling limestone plateau dissected by beautiful dales. Bakewell is famous for its tarts and puddings, and we recommend you reward yourself with a visit to the bakery at the end of the walk!

We are offering 4 walks today, ranging in length and difficulty, which are described below. Walks 1, 2a and 2b are ideal for those new to hiking or enjoy a social, slow-paced walk with plenty of photo opportunities (and a bit longer in Bakewell).  
Walks 3a and 3b are more challenging, with and require a faster walking pace with fewer stops. 

Please be honest with your capabilities. We can advise you on which walks would be best for you; if you are unsure, we are happy to help! 
<hr>
{{< sundayWalkInfo >}}

{{< /generalInfo >}}
{{< walk name="Walk 1" os="https://explore.osmaps.com/route/17112352/bakewell-walk-1--june-2023-fionn">}}
Follow the footpath along the hedgerow for 1.75km with the River Wye on the R. At the junction with the track, bear left and follow it up the hill as it bends sharply above an old railway tunnel. Stay on the bridleway as it veers a sharp right off the track and across fields, with Haddon Hall down on the right. Follow the bridleway as it turns left along a walled track, over a junction and uphill past the entrance to Bowling Green Farm. Follow the road downhill, keeping left at the junction, until it reaches a track junction at the southern edge of Manners Wood (SK 243 670). Here, take the bridleway ahead uphill into Manners Wood. Follow the bridleway up this steep section for 500m until the junction with the Haddon estate concession path (SK 244 673). Here turn left and follow the concession path for 1.5km and keep left at the fork. Follow the path until it reaches a stream in a small gully (SK 230 687), cross it and turn left. The path descends through a golf course where it bears R and crosses a bridge above the Monsal Trail and down the field beyond and onto a gated lane. Turn R at the T-junction with Coombes Road. At the end of the road turn L and cross Bakewell Bridge, finishing the walk at The Red Lion.
{{< /walk >}}
{{< walk name="Walk 2a" os="https://explore.osmaps.com/route/17113196/bakewell-walk-2a--june-2023-fionn">}}
Follow the footpath that skirts around the business centre, and turn R down Coombes Road. Take the first L, up a gated lane. Follow it through a field where it bears R across a bridge above the Monsal Trail and through a golf course. The route briefly enters Manners Wood, continuing straight along the footpath. Exiting the woodland, follow the footpath for 1.5km through the fields, continuing straight at the crossroads by the pond, until a sharp R turn at the crossroads near Carlton Houses (SK 247 687). Descend down the path, keeping L, past Carlton Houses and follow the bridleway beside a stream for 1.25km until it reaches Carlton Lees. At the junction follow the L-hand bend and follow it past Chatsworth Garden Centre and enter Chatsworth Park. Cross the B6012 and follow the first path that bears R towards the ruin of Chatsworth Mill. Follow the path alongside the River Derwent for 1.5km, passing two weirs and fabulous views of Chatsworth House, until the route reaches Paine’s Bridge (SK 257 701). Here, turn L and follow the footpath that curves R towards Edensor. Cross the B6012 and follow the lane for 1.75km, which begins in the village before climbing a steep hill. At the junction, turn L and follow the road for 750m until it reaches the woods. Here, take the footpath that descends through the woods. The footpath reemerges at Station Road, follow the road into Bakewell and across Bakewell Bridge, finishing the walk at The Red Lion.
{{< /walk >}}
{{< walk name="Walk 2b" os="https://explore.osmaps.com/route/17100233/bakewell-walk-2b--june-2023-fionn">}}
Cross the footbridge to Smith’s Island and immediately turn R down the road. Shortly turn L down the riverside footpath. Cross the A619 and continue along the riverside footpath. Turn L at Holme lane and then turn R at the junction, following the bridleway up the hill. Follow the bridleway for 2km until it reaches the Monsal Trail. Here turn L and follow the Monsal Trail for 3.25km. After walking through the 490m long Headstone Tunnel, the trail emerges on the impressive Headstone Viaduct (SK 182 715). Take in the views of the River Wye before turning back and turning L up the footpath and climb up the valley to Monsal Head. Follow the footpath defines the boundary between woodland and fields for 500m and follow it as it bears L into the fields. Follow the footpath as it meanders through fields until it becomes Pennyunk Lane. Follow the lane until it terminates at Ashford in the Water, here turn R at the T-junction. Follow the road through the village, past the bridge and the Church, and cross the A6020. Follow a small lane that crosses the River Wye, then immediately turn L and follow the footpath by the river for 1.25km. At the A6 turn L and follow it for 1.25km into Bakewell, finishing the walk at The Red Lion.
{{< /walk >}}
{{< walk name="Walk 3a" os="https://explore.osmaps.com/route/17115281/bakewell-walk-3a--june-2023-fionn">}}
Cross the footbridge to Smith’s Island, and another onto Grandby Croft. Immediately turn L, walk along the river, and cut across recreation ground. At the A6 turn L and follow it for 500m. Cross the A6 and turn R down Intake Lane and follow it for 1.25km. At the end of the lane, turn L and then shortly turn R down New Close Lane. After 500m, bear L and follow the footpath through the fields and into Over Haddon. Follow the road through the village and at the grass triangle turn L down the twisting lane to the bottom of Lathkill Dale. Follow the permissive footpath along the River Lathkill for 2km, passing Mandale Mine and Bateman’s House. Once exiting Palmerston Wood and reaching Carter’s Mill (SK 183 657), turning R and follow the footpath that climbs out the valley. Cross the road and follow the footpath across the field. Turn R and briefly follow the B5055. Turn L down green lane, bear L at the end of the lane and follow the road as it bears L for 1km. Turn R along the track to Magpie Mine (SK 172 681). At the Magpie Mine, follow the path that bears R and follow it for 1km. At the road turn R and follow it to the T-junction, where the route turns L. Shortly take the lane that bears R and follow it for 750m. When the road curves to the R, continue straight down the footpath. Cross the A6 and cross the bridge into Ashford in the Water, turn R past the church and cross the A6020. Follow a small lane that crosses the River Wye, then immediately turn L and follow the footpath by the river for 1.25km. At the A6, turn L and follow it for 1.25km into Bakewell, finishing the walk at The Red Lion.
{{< /walk >}}
{{< walk name="Walk 3b" os="https://explore.osmaps.com/route/17114195/bakewell-walk-3b--june-2023-fionn">}}
Cross the footbridge to Smith’s Island and immediately turn R down the road. At the T-junction, turn L down Coombes Road then immediately turn R up Station Street. After crossing over the bridge above the Monsal Trail, bear R and ascend up the footpath through the woods. Immediately turn R down the track once exiting the woods, and follow it for 1km. At the crossroads by the pond, turn L and follow the path through fields for 1.5km. Turn L at the crossroads near Carlton Houses (SK 247 687). Follow the walled bridleway through the woods. After entering Chatsworth Park, continue straight along the footpath as the bridleway veers the R. Follow the path for 1km, aiming for the spire of the church in Edensor. Entering Edensor, turn R and follow the road through the village. Cross the B6012 and follow the footpath that curves R towards Chatsworth House. At Paine’s Bridge (SK 257 701), turn R and follow the path alongside the River Derwent for 1.5km, bearing L at the fork, passing fabulous views of Chatsworth House and two weirs. At the ruin of Chatsworth Mill, turn R and cross the B6012. Follow the road past Chatsworth Garden Centre, and after the road curves R, turn L. Follow the Derwent Valley Heritage Way for 2.5km to Rowsley. Turn R up Church Lane and follow the Bridleway up the hill and through the woods for 1.75km. Turn R at the track junction at the southern edge of Manners Wood (SK 243 670), take the bridleway uphill into Manners Wood. Follow the bridleway up this steep section for 500m until the junction with the Haddon estate concession path (SK 244 673). Here turn L and follow the concession path for 1.5km and keep L at the fork. Follow the path until it reaches a stream in a small gully (SK 230 687), cross it and turn L. The path descends through a golf course where it bears R and crosses a bridge above the Monsal Trail and down the field beyond and onto a gated lane. Turn R at the T-junction with Coombes Road. At the end of the road turn L and cross Bakewell Bridge, finishing the walk at The Red Lion.
{{< /walk >}}
{{< /walks >}}

